# Blind-Person-Assistant-Object-Detection
It’s a known fact that estimated number of visually impaired person in the world is about 285 million, approximately equal to the 20% of the Indian Population. They are mostly dependent on someone for even accessing their basic day-to-day needs. In our project, we used TensorFlow, a relatively new library from Google. TensorFlow model our neural networks. The TensorFlow Object Detection API is used to detect multiple objects.  We have Introduce an algorithm (SSD). SSD uses a matching phase while training, to match the appropriate anchor box with the bounding boxes of each ground truth object within an image. Essentially, the anchor box with the highest degree of overlap with an object is responsible for predicting that object's class and its location.  It has microcontroller which has wifi inbuilt module. This guide is convenient and offers data to the client to move around in new condition, regardless of whether indoor or open air, through an easy use interface. Then again, and so as to lessen route challenges of the visually impaired, a deterrent location framework utilizing ultrasounds is added to this gadget. The proposed framework identifies the closest hindrance through ultrasonic sensors and it gives an alert to illuminate the visually impaired about its confinement.   Blind stick is an innovative stick designed for visually disabled people for improved navigation. We here propose an advanced blind stick that allows visually challenged people to navigate with ease using advanced technology. The blind stick is integrated with ultrasonic sensor along with light and water sensing. Our proposed project first uses ultrasonic sensors to detect obstacles ahead using ultrasonic waves.
